---
layout: post
title: 'The Executives Guide to Power and Retention In An API Driven World'
---
<p>The objective of this story is to provides Executives and  Venture Capitalists with a basic framework for putting social media to  work for the benefit of your company by establishing it as an industry  platform. If you are successful, you will maximize your market  capitalization and assert control over outspoken users and unruly  developers who may seek to cut into your profits.</p>
<div id="contents" style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana, Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif; font-size: 10px; font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; letter-spacing: normal; line-height: normal; orphans: auto; text-align: start; text-indent: 0px; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: auto; word-spacing: 0px;">
<p>The techniques described in this paper are  recommended to any C-Suite Executive or Venture Capitalist who desires  to be a dominant player on the Internet while preserving its image as a  forward-thinking technology company. We will walk you through the three  phases of attaining control, keeping it and wrestling it back should  there be conflict<strong>.</strong></p>
<ol class="mainlist" style="font-weight: normal;"> </ol>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Open Internet advocates desirenbsp;corporate  activity -- via social media via an ecosystem -- that enables  transparency through application of open software and APIs.nbsp;This  new world is not without benefits to your company, but needs to be  approached in a way that never cedes control to users or developers.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">You will want to look like a technology leader to  your investors, Board and public. To achieve this requires you to  orchestrate an illusion of open and transparency while hiding your  strict focus on revenue and control.<a style="display: inline-block; background-image: url(/jscripts/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/skins/default/img/items.gif); width: 11px !important; height: 11px !important; background-position: 0px 0px; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat;" name="id.fjriogaiddjj" href="#"></a></p>
<h2 style="font-weight: normal;">Setting the Stage for Control</h2>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">If you are reading this paper, you are likely to  desire greater control of your social media platform and its developer  community. Before you can take complete control of your platform, you  need to set the stage in a way that gives the appearance of a chaotic,  open platform ecosystem, but actually grants you ultimate power behind  the scenes.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">There several ways to achieve this, and it all starts with an API.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Offer an Application Programming Interface (API)</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">APIs are a common technique for appearing to be open  and transparent in this digital age. Anyone who is anyone has an open  API these days. All you have to do is release an API publicly and call  it &ldquo;Open,&rdquo; and you're in the club. Don&rsquo;t wait,nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2006/09/introducing-twitter-api.html">release an API early</a>.nbsp;Thenbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.facebook.com/blog.php?post=2207512130">sooner you have your API, the better.</a></p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">The simple act of having an API confers you street  cred as an &ldquo;open platform.&rdquo; If you have an API, you will be shielded  from accusations that you are not open.nbsp;</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">As you will soon see, there are a multitude of ways to keep your &ldquo;Open API&rdquo; from actually being open.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Actively Maintain Your Developer Community</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Once you have your &ldquo;open API&rdquo;, you need &ldquo;opennbsp;developers.&rdquo;  These developers are the serfs of your digital kingdom, the power in  your &ldquo;Matrix.&rdquo; They are the working class for your platform, yet only  better; in this digital environment you can get most of them to work for  free.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">It&rsquo;s not difficult to attract and maintain a large  number of developers to your API, even if some leave from time to time.  You will have turnover within your platform, so make sure to keep their  ecosystem just lively enough that developers continually sign up and  maintain a certain level of activity in the ecosystem. Make sure you  offer a self-registration form so they can join your platform 24/7.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">It doesn&rsquo;t take much to keep the developer herds  calm and happy. For the most part, developers will take care of  themselves, so long as younbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://mashable.com/2010/04/14/twitters-executives-answer-everybodys-questions-live/">let them know every once in a while that you are there for them, even if you don&rsquo;t actively support them</a><a class="c3" href="http://mashable.com/2010/04/14/twitters-executives-answer-everybodys-questions-live/">.</a>Make them feel special through anbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://developers.facebook.com/blog/post/417/">regular newsletter</a>nbsp;andnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/faster-forward/post/facebook-announces-f8-developer-conference/2011/08/25/gIQAR9d0fJ_blog.html">by feting them at a lavish annual conference</a>.nbsp;Find time to<a class="c3" href="http://mashable.com/2010/04/14/twitters-executives-answer-everybodys-questions-live/">highlight developers and their apps</a>, let them knownbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.voiceoftech.com/swhitley/index.php/2011/03/a-letter-to-ryan-sarver/">where the opportunities are</a>, even if you never intend for them to be.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Make them feel like they have a purpose, otherwise they can become unruly. When anyone asks critical questions, remind themnbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!topic/twitter-development-talk/yCzVnHqHIWo">of the size and diversity of your your platform and user base</a>,nbsp;and be sure to mention how difficult it is for you to be a benevolent leader. Ifnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fgigaom.com%2F2010%2F07%2F02%2Fwhats-on-deck-for-twitters-platform-app-promotion-and-another-dev-conference%2F&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNERZ1aU8ysPMIEuoiVcAyV79JsCJg">your developer community looks like its getting off track, reassure them that things are OK</a>,  then step away and avoid interaction except when absolutely necessary.  You don&rsquo;t actually have to attend to their problems, but simply need to  say that you are thinking about things.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">When you are say publicly that you are actively  supporting a developer community, it is easy to maintain an illusion of  openness. Don&rsquo;t commit too many financial resources. You need only  invest enough to keep your platform active and alive.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Avoid Decentralized Technologies and Standards</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">In open communities, developers will attempt to  deploy and integrate decentralized technologies and standards. These  types of technologies will work against your authority, so you must  avoid their introduction and actively seek to disable any of these  active on your platform.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">As a social media technology company, it is inevitable that you will face questions about decentralization fromnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://al3x.net/2010/09/15/last-thing-about-twitter.html">noisy open Internet advocates.</a>nbsp;Make sure you have a plan tonbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://techcrunch.com/2010/09/16/decentralize-twitter/">resist calls for decentralization</a>.nbsp;Zero tolerance is a requirement. Without it, asserting control will be impossible.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Open-Wash:</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">The concept of &ldquo;open&rdquo; is now mainstream thought on  the Internet. The need to use it as a branding term is a requirement of  any social media technology company. The appearance of being &ldquo;open&rdquo; is  one of your greatest assets. In this section, we will discuss steps you  can take to maintain the illusion of openness, even when your actions  are taking your platform the opposite directions. &ldquo;Open-Washing&rdquo; is to  technology as &ldquo;Green-Washing&rdquo; is to the environment.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Make the concept of &ldquo;open&rdquo; a big part of yournbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.itworld.com/it-managementstrategy/291719/twitter-open-source-washing-its-image">marketing and overall brand</a>.  Use the term whenever possible. The more you say it, the more your  customers and developers will believe it. No matter what anyone says,  you must passionatelynbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.programmableweb.com/2012/07/09/the-twitter-api-still-an-open-platform/">maintain that you are an open Platform</a>.nbsp;When  challenged, shift the discussion to the importance of open platforms,  not the details of whether or not your platform is truly open.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Open source code on a regular basis. Open source  code doesn&rsquo;t have to be anything important, but merely enough to  contribute to your image as &ldquo;open.&rdquo; One easy way to do do this is to  offer otherwise ineffectual, worthless code, likenbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2011/08/storm-is-coming-more-details-and-plans.html">extra code you have obtained by acquiring other companies</a></p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Do not ever open source code that is core to your  monetization strategy. Open sourcing code is strictly about contributing  to your brand, not giving value to your competitors or minimizing  profits.&nbsp;</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;"><a class="c3" href="http://twitter.github.com/">Open an account with Github</a>,nbsp;an  open source code repository. This simple move builds your credibility  with developers as an &ldquo;open platform.&rdquo; You can deflect criticism by  showing that you are &ldquo;one of them&rdquo; and hang out where they like to hang  out.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Do Not Tolerate Internal Resistance</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">You cannot assert control over your platform in the  face of internal opposition. Identify anyone within your company who  stands in the way of your strategy and make them leave -- even if they  are company founders. Everyone must go!!</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Encourage dissentersnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2011%2F12%2F12%2Ftwitter-employees-leaving-stock%2F&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNHxzn-aziIOWu6aKfdo-rRt14jUMQ">to sell ther stock and leave. Don&rsquo;t worry about former employees disparaging you after they leave</a>.nbsp;If you are questioned about why these people are no longer with you, deflect andnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://tech.fortune.cnn.com/2011/11/14/leaving-twitter/">point out how much your company has</a><a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Ftech.fortune.cnn.com%2F2011%2F11%2F14%2Fleaving-twitter%2F&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNFM8fYesR3MWpuiV_ba_uioB3rVTA">nbsp;grown</a>.&nbsp;</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">By impressing the media, your users and your  developers with your growth, you won&rsquo;t have to answer their tough  questions about your plans. This brings up the corollary that achieving  dominance over your platform requires a tight relationship with the  media.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Embrace Security Issues</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Security issues can work in your favor when it comes  to social media control. A hostile environment opens up opportunities  to justify crack-downs and new control procedures. Embrace security in  your PR and marketing.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Fear is one of the top marketing tools in your  toolbox, so make user security an essential element of your public  relations campaigns.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2010/02/avoid-phishing-scams.html">Educate users about any real or perceived security problems</a>nbsp;and inform them how they are being dealt with.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2012/03/past-few-months-have-been-busy-for.html">Hold security open houses</a>nbsp;to make it clear that security is top priority for your company. W<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2010/06/ftc-announcement.html">hen the FTC investigates, make sure everyone knows you&rsquo;re working closely with them to make sure everything is alright.</a></p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Your user&rsquo;s perceived peace of mind is important. In  social media there will always be SPAM that shakes user confidence.  Whether or not you address the issue, use this as an opportunitynbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2008/08/making-progress-on-spam.html">let users know you are always defending them</a>nbsp;against malicious spammers.&nbsp;</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">If you are a victim of a malicious DDOS attack,nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2009/08/denial-of-service-attack.html">publicize it to make sure the public knows you have enemies</a>.nbsp;You now have named an enemy that you can blame in the future.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Embrace Stability Issues</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">The perception of stability for your platform will  be a complex set of emotional areas for you to exploit with your users  and developers, and can serve as excellent distractions when the time is  right. Any accusations of wrongdoing can easily be deflected or lost in  the confusion as you assert control over your social media platform.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Like security, stability issues can work for you as  well when prescribed properly. You don&rsquo;t want to turn users off, but let  them know unpredictable things can happen. When you encounter stability  issuesnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2010/06/whats-happening-with-twitter.html">respond publicly to signal that you care</a>.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2011/03/great-migration-winter-of-2011.html">Showcase and dramatize any hard work you do</a>.nbsp;When younbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2007/12/downtime-rescheduled-shorter.html">do good things for stability, discuss it in detail</a>.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">When in doubt about your platform&rsquo;s stability, remind everyone that you arenbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2009/06/up-up-and-away.html">supporting mission critical events of global importance</a>nbsp;while trying to keep the service operational for the normals. At public events, talk about yournbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://allthingsd.com/20110107/live-twitter-ceo-dick-costolo-at-dces/">platform</a><a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fallthingsd.com%2F20110107%2Flive-twitter-ceo-dick-costolo-at-dces%2F&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNESbe8pmuBlAGlQH2IOYLcLYrkYgw">&rsquo;s</a><a class="c3" href="http://allthingsd.com/20110107/live-twitter-ceo-dick-costolo-at-dces/">reliability</a>nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2010/07/reliability.html">as candidly as possible</a>.nbsp;People will ultimately forgive stability issues because you care so much, and they will be bored to death by the details.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Publish annbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://developers.facebook.com/roadmap/change-policy/">official breaking change policy</a>nbsp;that  formally announces how long you will give developers before you break a  feature. This makes for a great press release, but isn&rsquo;t binding in any  way. You can still break things when you elect to -- which you may need  to do at some point to send signals to the ecosystem.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Onee the stage is set, you can get away with a  murder because you can point out the good you do, exploit the emotions  of your users and developers, and hide behind multiple layers of  abstraction.<a style="display: inline-block; background-image: url(/jscripts/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/skins/default/img/items.gif); width: 11px !important; height: 11px !important; background-position: 0px 0px; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat;" name="id.z5rwzp62nsva" href="#"></a></p>
<h2 style="font-weight: normal;">Asserting Control</h2>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">To assert dominance of your social media platform,  you need to take control over users, developer, the data they generate  and the technology that drives it. Once you have control, you can  execute a command and control strategy with little resistance that  favors your profit and well-being over everyone else in your platform  ecosystem.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Do not allow anonymous access by any partner or  developer in the ecosystem. Require everyone to authenticate as a user  or endpoint so they can be dealt with accordingly. Scour your platform  for anything that allows anonymous access and remove it. Consider  ejecting seeminglynbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://mashable.com/2012/09/05/twitter-api-rss/">harmless technologies like RSS</a>nbsp;that allow for delivery of content to external clients without requiring user information.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">In the early days of your platform you might need to  allow a certain amount of anonymous access to content and data, to  build momentum. When you don&rsquo;t need it anymore, ditch it andnbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/blog/changes-coming-to-twitter-api">require all users to authenticate to access data</a>.nbsp;This way you can track everything and everyone on your platform -- providing you with complete end-to-end control.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Own Your Brand</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">The success of your control strategy is dependent on  your company&rsquo;s image and brand. Owning th brand will play a big role in  how users and developers perceive you.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.newsy.com%2Fvideos%2Ftwitter-tightens-up-its-brand&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNHKZHsqwIDOo85z47HmcXjHg46cRA">If you don&rsquo;t do it early, you&rsquo;ll have to tighten your grip on the brand later</a>,nbsp;which will be significantly more difficult.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Your developers can&rsquo;t think for themselves when it comes to branding.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://apievangelist.com/2012/06/06/brand-control-within-an-api-ecosystem-twitter-edition/">Brand Control Within An API Ecosystem</a>nbsp;is essential and must be dictated to developers.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Flogo&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNFL8cfvP3jVYTZTEHAG1q3bqkKYLw">Tell them which logo, buttons and widgets they can use</a>nbsp;and exactly how to position your logo. If younbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/terms/api-terms/diff">provide Display Guidelines for developers, switch them to be Requirements</a>nbsp;and then crack down on violators.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Get excited about your brand control and make it fun.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2010/10/new-twitter-new-look.html">Showcase anytime you come out with a new look</a>nbsp;and make it a big deal.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Lock Down Content</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">You are a social media platform, so much of your  image will be built around publicly available content. You will need to  facilitate the image that your platform&rsquo;s valuable content is public  while assuring you solely control search, discovery, display and  syndication.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Your API will provide access to content, but will be  controlled using rate limits. Some social media platforms provide  larger levels of access to partners, such as the span&gt;<a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/terms/api-terms/diff">commonly known &ldquo;firehose&rdquo; format. If you can help it, don</a><a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fdev.twitter.com%2Fterms%2Fapi-terms%2Fdiff&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNGHQiv7Oi_nbK9G42S5Dv3GfsuTwQ">&rsquo;t offer these higher levels of access under the name of privacy and security</a>.nbsp;This doesn&rsquo;t mean you can&rsquo;tnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/facebook_firehose_may_be_released_at_developer_con.php">keep discussions going about the possibility of higher levels of access by leaking stories to the press.</a>nbsp;In reality, you will control all of your content and need not intend to offering anyone access to its value.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Run Your Own Services</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Beyond users and your brand, you need to reel in all  services you use in the cloud. If you got started by using free and  hosted services, that time is over.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Bring all services in-house.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/blog/twemproxy">Showcase things you develop internally</a>nbsp;and  make a big deal out of the process of running your own services. If the  technology behind the services doesn&rsquo;t directly drive revenue,nbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/blog/scalding">open source the technology to help feed into yournbsp;</a><a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fdev.twitter.com%2Fblog%2Fscalding&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNHQ5Hn0CLQIv38-KBCAlDaHtRnrAg">&ldquo;open&rdquo;nbsp;</a><a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/blog/scalding">image</a>.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">If you need something that exists as open source or open standard, bringnbsp;<a class="c3" href="/2012/06/13/twitter-launches-new-not-so-open-graph-aka-twitter-cards/">it in-house and make it yournbsp;</a><a class="c3" href="/2012/06/13/twitter-launches-new-not-so-open-graph-aka-twitter-cards/">own</a>.While bringing your services in house is all about the control of your users and data, get the PR value out of it,nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2010/07/murder-fast-datacenter-code-deploys.html">try to look cool with what you build</a><sup class="c0"><a style="display: inline-block; background-image: url(/jscripts/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/skins/default/img/items.gif); width: 11px !important; height: 11px !important; background-position: 0px 0px; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat;" name="ftnt_ref40" href="#ftnt40">[40]</a></sup><a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2010/07/murder-fast-datacenter-code-deploys.html">nbsp;and showcase the</a>nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2010/04/timeboxing.html">techniques you have developed in house as well.</a>nbsp;Remember thatnbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://techcrunch.com/2010/04/23/like-buttons-evil-facebook-not-open/">to be perceived as open, you merely need to use the word &ldquo;open&rdquo; in the name</a>.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">While controlling your services, will get the best  of both worlds: complete control and the public perception of open and  transparent.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Host Your Own Data</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">The data generated by your social media platform is  gold. You must protect it at all costs. Do not let your data be stored  by anyone else.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Build and maintain your own proprietary data stories, whilenbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2012/04/mysql-at-twitter.html">publicly declaring what technologies you use to store data</a>nbsp;Just  as you have done when you migrated your services out of the cloud,  publicize what you do while moving your data in-house. You can bolster  your public image by showing that you usenbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2010/07/cassandra-at-twitter-today.html">cool technology to manage your data</a>.nbsp;Let people know about the<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2010/04/memcached-spof-mystery.html">issues you face doing all this work that you do</a>.nbsp;It&rsquo;s complex stuff -- but now you control all of your data and you got a little PR action out of it to boot.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Run Your Own Data Center</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">You own all your content, services and data. Next  you need to avoid operating on someone elses infrastructure. Once this  is done, you will have total control over hardware and network, and  fully own all aspects of your platform.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">This final move in taking control of your technology  is a big one. All the big boys own their own data center and you need  to have one, too. When you start building your data center, don&rsquo;t  announce it publicly. Leak the news slowly, tonbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/is_this_twitters_new_custom_data_center.php">get people talking.</a>nbsp;Once ready,nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fengineering.twitter.com%2F2010%2F07%2Froom-to-grow-twitter-data-center.html&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNFr_a1CFzyk5sI7z14XeXavoH4zbA">announce it</a>nbsp;and use it as an opportunity to generate good will bynbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://engineering.twitter.com/2011/03/great-migration-winter-of-2011.html">letting everyone know what what hard work it was.</a></p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Exploit the Platformnbsp;Ecosystem</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">At this point, you&rsquo;ve invested a lot of time, energy  and resources in your user and developer ecosystem. Now is the time to  reap the rewards. After all, this is your platform and you have every  right to the harvest from the digital plantation you&rsquo;ve established and  cultivated.&nbsp;</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Remember The Matrix? You have now created your own.  All of your work has achieved an illusion of open access for your  developer community. They are kept happy and harmless in their virtual  world. In reality you are harvesting their ideas, pictures, videos,  content and applications and whatever other value they produce for your  platform.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">This vast developer and user generated ecosystem is  all yours for exploitation. Look at what your company needs to grow, and  start bynbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://vator.tv/news/2012-01-24-twitter-buys-dasient-ups-its-security">acquiring companies in your ecosystem to boost security</a>,nbsp;Ownership of discovery is essential to control. Once you control search, you own the doorway to your data and content.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Identify anything of value developed within your  ecosystem that may be of value to operations or revenue goals, Then  acquire it, including the bestnbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://twitter.com/twitterapi/statuses/73411831716249600">desktop clients</a><a style="display: inline-block; background-image: url(/jscripts/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/skins/default/img/items.gif); width: 11px !important; height: 11px !important; background-position: 0px 0px; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat;" name="ftnt_ref54" href="#ftnt54">[54]</a></p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Even with all of this bountiful opportunity to  acquire all of your needs from your serfs, you need only purchase what  is absolutely essential. Look at your ecosystem as a source of ideas.  You can can then consider using internal resources to build new features  before you look at acquisition.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Your social media platform is your equivalent of  &ldquo;The Matrix.&rdquo; Users and developers provide power to your platform. It is  up to you to channel this power and value into monetization while  maintaining the illusion of benevolence to your users.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Your ecosystem is designed to allow you to easily  harvest the best ideas from your platform ecosystem and acquire them  when necessary.nbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://blog.twitter.com/2011/07/one-million-registered-twitter-apps.html">Let people know how much you&rsquo;ve spent to acquire projects from the ecosystem&rsquo;s developers</a>making it known you are always looking for good opportunities&lt;.  This will keep developer serfs working and chasing the startup dream of  a quick cashout -- and thus powering your social media matrix.<a style="display: inline-block; background-image: url(/jscripts/tiny_mce/themes/advanced/skins/default/img/items.gif); width: 11px !important; height: 11px !important; background-position: 0px 0px; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat;" name="id.19i0rkkbbqh6" href="#"></a></p>
<h2 style="font-weight: normal;">Establishing an Ongoing Control Strategy</h2>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Now that you have suppressed anonymity and taken  control over your brand, clients, middleware, storage and transport of  data, you are in an optimal position. Your social media platform appears  to be an open, transparent operation that supports everyone. In reality  you control all aspects of operations and messaging, allowing you to  execute an ongoing control strategy favorable to your monetization  strategy with little resistance.</p>
<h3 style="font-weight: normal;">Dynamic Approaches</h3>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">The need to oppress users and the developer  community will change from time to time. Maintain a balance of stability  and control by dynamically changing your tactics as needed.</p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">Users are fairly easy to manage, but developers can be an unruly bunch. Sometimes you have tonbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fdev.twitter.com%2Fterms%2Fapi-terms&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNESESM6Bb83kZQFTiwOnT1FvgsLdQ">lay down the rules of the roa</a><a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/terms/api-terms">d</a>, while other times you will need to soothe developers that they are anbsp;<a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/blog/note-jack-twitter-developers">fundamental part of your platform</a><a class="c3" href="http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fdev.twitter.com%2Fblog%2Fnote-jack-twitter-developers&amp;sa=D&amp;sntz=1&amp;usg=AFQjCNEHcDdj7qztxQobsvtt8bmM6XUQng">&rsquo;s</a><a class="c3" href="https://dev.twitter.com/blog/note-jack-twitter-developers">nbsp;DNA.</a></p>
<p style="font-weight: normal;">You will have to try out different methods for  balancing the right amount of openness vs. oppression within your own  community. It is common fornbsp;<a class="c3" href="http://gigaom.com/2012/09/03/why-i-have-a-love-hate-relationship-with-twitter/">developers to have a love-hate relationship with their API</a></p>
</div>