---
layout: post
title: 'Clear API Opportunities'
---
<h2>Clear API Opportunities</h2>
<p>Beyond the newer trends in API usage, there are several opportunities emerging for both businesses and developers to take advantage of. The simplistic, web-based approach to providing access to resources is moving into new and exciting areas:</p>
<p><strong>3D Printing<a title="3D Printing" href="../../trends/3d-printing.php"><br /></a></strong>3D printing, with the help of web APIs are moving beyond hobby and art, and have serious potential for re-defining the global manufacturing landscape. There are several platforms focusing on providing APIs for 3D printing. In this section I will be tracking on news and companies that are doing interesting things around 3D printing and APIs, while also sharing blog analysis as well.</p>
<p><strong>Automobiles<a title="Automobiles" href="../../trends/automobiles.php"><br /></a></strong>Think of the amount of time the average person spends in their car? It makes sense that the automobile would be an opportunity for delivering API driven data and resources. Major automakers like Ford and GM are turning our vehicles into API driven platforms, providing opportunities for businesses and developers to provide new products and services in-vehicle.</p>
<p><strong><a href="http://home.apievangelist.com/"></a></strong></p>
<p><strong>Home<a href="http://home.apievangelist.com/"><br /></a></strong>Devices play a central roles in our daily lives. We carry our smart devices from home to work, and everywhere else we go in the world. It makes sense that APIs will eventually make their way beyond our computers in the corner and integrate directly with our homes. A new wave of companies are emerging to develop the next generation of home automation technology ranging from thermostats for heating and air conditioning to lighting and home security. While much of the home automation technology is still without API, many new providers have seen the potential of introducing developer ecosystems and are using APIs to stimulate innovation around home technology integration.</p>
<p><strong>Buildings<a title="Buildings" href="../../trends/buildings.php"><br /></a></strong>Buildings play a large role in our personal and professional lives. Many buildings already have automated heating, air, electrical, water and other system, and these building equipment manufacturers are quickly seeing the importance of allowing API access to their hardware and software. Imagine if all of our buildings thought for themselves, and were able to teach us to reduce energy consumption, diagnose problems in real-time, allowing them to self correct when necessary or call a service provider when they need repair or tuning.</p>
<p><strong>Quantified Self<a title="Quantified Self" href="../../trends/quantified-self.php"><br /></a></strong>There is a new wave of devices that allow the wearer to understand more about themselves, ranging from heart rate to location and speed. While sports is a common model for many devices, because they have APIs, it opens up this new wave of quantified self devices that can be used for everything from life style tracking to health care.</p>
<ul class="mainlist">
</ul>
<p style="page-break-after: always;">These five areas represent just a handful of the opportunities available with APIs. APIs are not just about applications on the Internet, they are connecting our physical worlds to this wondrous new cloud world we are increasingly becoming dependent on.</p>