---
layout: post
title: 'API Deployment'
---
<h2>API Deployment</h2>
<p>Deploying APIs is sitll something that can be very technical, requiring a healthy understanding of what an API is, how to construct a RESTful framework, and deploy the APIs underlying architecture. However with the growing demand for APIs and the potential for new service providers entering the space, we are seeing more tools and services available for assisting providers in deployment of web APIs in 2013.</p>
<p>When it comes to API deployment it is all about what resources you have. If you have technical talent within reach, that understands APIs and can custom design and deploy APIs--this is the route to take. However as many companies are finding, they have the need, but no the resources to actually execute on the designing and deployment of APIs.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Existing Software Vendors</strong><br />As the demand for APIs grows, the number of existing database and software vendors that are deploying API deployment tools and services are growing. Before looking externally for API deployment tools and services make sure and look at your existing software vendors. There is a good chance that you already have the capabilities for deploying APIs or could easily add-on functionality that will assist in the process, as part of your current systems.</p>
<p><strong>Platform as a Service</strong><br />Platform as a Service, also known as PaaS, has found success in delivering the resources developers are needing to deploy web and mobile applications. Having used APIs to grow their own platforms, they are quickly seeing the benefits of providing API deployment tools for their existing customers to deploy APIs. If you use a common PaaS provider, there are chances that you already have the ability to deploy web APIs as part of your offering.</p>
<p><strong>API as a Service</strong><br />Cloud providers are also emerging that assist companies in deploying APIs from common data source such as from MySQL, SQL Server, PostGreSQL, Oracle and even new sources such as NoSQL or cloud computing databases. If your need to deploy APIs is centered around resources available within existing data sources, take a ook at the range of existing services that are emerging to help companies deploy APIs.</p>
<p><strong>Custom Deployment</strong><br />Many companies will opt for deploying their own custom API platforms. Even if your company has the resources available to design develop your own custom APIs, there are plenty of REST frameworks, oAuth servers and other open resources to help get the job done.&nbsp; There is no reason to reinvent the wheel with the wealth of custom API deployment resources currently available.</p>
<p>In the last six years, the case has been made for APIs. API pioneers have laid the groundwork proving the value is there, and now it is time to refine and establish best practices of API deployment using common, open source frameworks and common patterns like REST, and Hypermedia.&nbsp;</p>
<p style="page-break-after: always;">Good API design will make API deployment a sensible and efficient process. But even with deployment, the job isn't done and following well established practices for API management is next.</p>