---
layout: post
title: 'Migration From A SOA To An API Way Of Life'
---
<p>The modern web API movement was born out of the enterprise service oriented architecture methodology, also known as SOA. This earlier, and still very relevant methodology, is a way to deploy web services, in a very technical, top down, IT governance kind of way. Around 2000 what we know as the modern web API began to take a different direction with a series of API deployments from like <span>SalesForce</span>, Amazon and EBay--something that was further evolved by social emdia platforms like Twitter, Facebook, and tech giants like Google, then again by Amazon, resulting what is now known as cloud computing.<br /><br />As I mentioned before, most institutions use web services as part of regular systems and IT operations, but very few actually understand the benefits of breaking free from this very silo-ed, and technical way of operating, and see the benefits a web API approach. It is very likely that most IT campus operations have a registry of web services, existing software systems that have APIs which are not being put to use, and most importantly lack a centralized, organized vision for making services available outside of internal IT operations.&nbsp;<br /><br />It takes a forward thinking IT group, that is aware of what has been happening across the tech landscape over the last 14 years, with APIs. This type of transition in thinking can be seen playing out at Brigham Young University with their over 250+ APIs, which once you scratch the surface you realize that the majority are older SOAP services, part of a legacy SOA strategy, with only a handful of them being redesigned to reflect modern web APIs. Even with this awareness, BYU is still just beginning to get a handle on what a centralized developer area will look like, let alone an organized and consistent approach to designing, deploying and managing APIs.<br /><br />The enterprise has begun waking up to the benefits of an API strategy over a purely SOA driven strategy, and I&rsquo;d say that city, state, and federal government have started doing the same in the last two years, which is something I predict higher education institutions will be doing over the next five years. Evolving from a very internally focused IT vision of web services, to an externally focused API vision, one that includes not just IT, but administrators, faculty, students, and outside vendors and third party developers will not be easy for many schools, but it will be required to stay relevant in coming years.</p>