---
layout: post
title: 'Central Developer Program'
---
<p><span>A single place to find all of an institutions API and developer resources, usually at developer.example.edu, or within a specific folder at example.edu/developer, is essential to a heightened viability of any campus API effort. A single portal for secure, machine readable access to all of an institutions digital assets, provides a consistent place for anyone to find what they need, anytime.</span><br /> <br /> <span>Employing a central registry for all digital services is a good idea when viewed from a campus IT perspective. Also investing in this registry not being just a technical portal, where only seasoned IT professionals and developers go, but also any average user, is essential to injecting consistency, and cultivating an essential human tone to any IT operations. In the last decade, various mini-evolutions in technology like Web 2.0, Cloud Computing, and APIs have slowly pulled IT out of the shadows, and into the public space, and campus IT needs to get on board with the latest API evolution or risk falling behind.</span><br /> <br /> <span>Faculty and administrators should all know they can visit the centralized campus developer area and find not just open data, and API resources, but also tools and services they can put to use in their daily work. An API developer area is not just for programmers, there are many buttons, badges, widgets, connectors, spreadsheet integrators, and other tools that allow for non-developers to put APis to work for them&mdash;any modern campus developer program should provide a robust buffet of services any faculty member can take advantage of, with very little guidance, in a self-service way.</span><br /> <br /> <span>An increasing number of college students are coming to school, equipped with an awareness that APIs exist, from their exposure to popular technology platforms like Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. All of these leading technology providers have centralized developer areas, and often provide direct integration with the Software as a Service (SaaS) accounts of student-users. This type of pollination between software users, and modern web API programs have taught users that they can find their own buttons, badges, widgets and put other API driven services like If This Then That, and Zapier to use when managing their digital identity.&nbsp;</span><br /> <br /> <span>Higher education institutions will need to look beyond the classic definition of what a web service or API is, and realize that they provide increasing value to not just internal IT, but also the faculty, administrators, and students across an institution. &nbsp;Providing a single, common place to find digital assets is quickly becoming the norm, not just in leading tech companies, but within federal, state and city governments, nonprofit organizations, and eventually across higher education institutions.&nbsp;</span></p>