---
layout: post
title: 'Higher Education Is Front Line For Web Literacy'
---
<p><span>A large part of our worlds have moved online. Whether it is entertainment at home, education in the classroom, or out and about on our mobile devices, we are living more of our lives online&mdash;increasing the imperative that we are empowering every student with at least a minimum amount of web literacy. Think of web literacy, like understanding your personal finances, every single adult must have a certain level of awareness of how our financial system operates. You don't need to understand the inner workings of banking and global markets, but you need to know how to setup a bank account, apply for credit or debit cards, balance your checkbook and pay your taxes. As our lives move online and our digital footprint expands, our data is fast becoming the online currency of Internet platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest, increasing the need for us to understand the mechanisms at play in this new digital economy, and empower each student to take back some control.</span><br /> <br /> <span>Web literacy goes beyond just what you will need to know in your job and career, it is what you will need to be a literate citizen, and use government services, conduct business, and even interact with your friends and community around you. Just as higher education has played a significant role in preparing our youth for the real world in the past, it will have to take the lead in providing them with the basic web literacy skills they will need to engage online in everyday scenarios, as well as the specialty career trajectories. API is a layer of web literacy, one that allows the tech savvy individual to peel back how the Internet works, and configure, tweak, and make the Internet work for them--not the other way around.</span></p>