---
layout: post
title: 'APIs And Education At BYU'
---
<p>Intro</p>
<p>API Evangelist</p>
<p><strong>Change in 2000</strong><br /> In 2000, as the World Wide Web was picking up speed, quickly becoming part of every aspect of our our lives, a handful of companies began designing, developing, and managing their technology a little differently from the norm--setting into motion, something that 15 years would change how we compute.</p>
<p><strong>Roy Fielding Dissertation</strong><br /> These early visions of how to architecture applications that run on the open Internet were born out of one persons dissertation, and several other IT born approaches such as XML-RPC, and SOAP. Roy just primed the pump, for a new way of conducting IT Operations, that was increasingly done over the Internet pipes--laying the groundwork for what we now call web APIs.</p>
<p><strong>Jumped Out Of The Enterprise Toolbox</strong><br /> While using HTTP as a transport for web services really wasn't that new and novel, it was simply one tool in a wider enterprise IT toolbox, alongside XML-RPC, FTP, ODBC, and other common ways of connecting IT systems and applications together. As this new breed of practitioners would demonstrate, web APIs would be much more than just their technical, IT origins.</p>
<p><strong>Amazon</strong><br /> Amazon.com was one of the first companies to heavily employ a variety flavor of APIs to stand out, and lead the pack when it came to online commerce. Using APIs Amazon was able to grow a network of commerce affiliates, making it a powerhouse when it comes to not just online commerce, but also increasingly offline.</p>
<p><strong>Twitter</strong><br /> In 2006, just a couple months after Twitter launched its simple micro blogging platform, they launched a web API, which over almost 10 years has produced everything we know to be Twitter from the Tweet button, to the TweetDeck application. In 2015 Twitter has 1M developers, who have made Twitter the central nervous system for the Internet.</p>
<p><strong>Amazon Again</strong><br /> By 2006 Amazon had internalized APIs in such a way, that they were using APIs almost all aspects of business, from building their online affiliate to how they provisioned compute and storage, resulting in what we now call Amazon Web Services--forever changing how we deliver software, applications, businesses and government that operates in the cloud.</p>
<p><strong>Google Maps</strong><br /> At the same time Amazon was changing how we compute using APIs, the Google Maps team was trying to understand how to better deliver a better map to web users, allowing them to mashup, and explore, places, and locations in new ways. Priming the pump for how we deliver the resources to mobile devices, tat in just a few sort years would become ubiquitous in our personal, and business lives.</p>
<p><strong>Making Resources Accessible</strong><br /> These new APIs in the areas of commerce, social, cloud, and mobile weren't just new software solutions, they were all about providing the resources that end-users needed, whether that was on the web, or on your mobile devices. Web APIs were more about making valuable digital resources accessible to the people who needed them, more than they were about controlling the resources.</p>
<p><strong>By-passing Traditional IT Infrastructure</strong><br /> This new approach to deliver resources flourished within the emerging startup culture, but soon spread to other businesses, institutions, and government as a way to by-pass the traditional IT bottleneck, and enabling problem owners to quickly get what they needed via web applications, and to a growing appetite for mobile applications. In 2015, many IT organizations are changing their tune, and putting APIs to work, but there are still many hold outs.</p>
<p><strong>Next Step In Evolution of Web: HTML &gt; JSON</strong><br /> Web APIs are not about some new system or vendor product, they are just the next evolution of the web, which has historically been about delivering HTML representations of resources (i.e. blogs, products, videos) to humans--APIs are about reliving the same resources, represented using JSON, to any other system or application (i.e.. not humans). What makes web APIs so successful over other API incarnations is it uses the same technology being employed by the web, making it the most efficient approach.</p>
<p><strong>Doing It Around The Globe</strong><br /> APIs are the next step in the evolution of the web, and how companies, government, and institutions are embracing the a digital first strategy, around the globe. If its delivering resources to mobile apps, its being done by APIs, and startups, cities, banks, universities, and governments are putting APIs to work--operating in a secure way, on the open internet.</p>
<p><strong>Startups</strong><br /> We have heard the startup stories from Twitter to Uber, about how APIs are giving them the competitive edge, making APIs the default tool of any startup, whether in Silicon Valley, or Prague. There is a reason startups use APIs, because it gives them the agile nature they need to be able to pivot and evolve as needed to go from idea to viable business as quickly as possible.</p>
<p><strong>Small Businesses</strong><br /> If it is on your website, as a small business, your digital resources need to be available via APIs. IT isn't just about building your own web or mobile apps, it is about making sure the products and services you are serving up are available on Google, Foursquare, Amazon, and any other platform possible.</p>
<p><strong>Enterprise</strong><br /> After fifteen years of evolution, the enterprise is finally recognizing the technical, business, and political value of APIs. Companies from Best Buy and Target on the retail front, to AT&amp;T in the telco arena, to MasterCard and Visa, are using APIs to remain competitive in the increasingly volatile, digital environment.</p>
<p><strong>Government</strong><br /> Forty of the top fifty cities in the United States have open data and API efforts, providing access to valuable civic resources for helping share the load of local government. At the other end of the spectrum federal agencies like Commerce, Energy, Health &amp; Human Services, and even the White House are putting APIs to work to provide access to data, and potentially amplify the voice of citizens, while giving them access to public resources.</p>
<p><strong>Institutions</strong><br /> All of this API activity is beginning to make its way to leading institutions like the World Bank, to higher educational institutions, like Brigham Young University, and Berkeley. There are many ways APIs are being applied at institutions around the world, and aren't always a regular part of operations, but are making an impact, whether institutions want to admit it or not.</p>
<p><strong>Top-Down</strong><br /> Sometimes this change is coming from leadership at these companies and institutions, handed down as a mandate for how technical, and business sides should be operating. Wile top-down change using APIs can have a wide impact, but as we've seen with larger efforts like the open data efforts in the federal government, it takes a mixed approach to achieve optimal results.</p>
<p><strong>Bottom-Up</strong><br /> Like APIs jumping out of the enterprise IT toolbox, and getting some oxygen in the startup environment, API change itself is sometimes better executed as an organic effort, led from the bottom up. While not all organizations and institutions respond to change this way, it can be beneficial in building a core user base in a group--think about how popular software solutions have made their way into organizations over the last five years.</p>
<p><strong>Outside-In</strong><br /> Silicon, and the popular tech scene has a tremendous influence over how businesses and organizations of all shapes and sizes adopt software these days. Shadow IT of popular areas of IT operations, that used to be own internally, often become the seeds of software adoption from cloud storage to messaging applications--this is one example of API driven change, that allows for an outside-in adoption of needed services.</p>
<p><strong>Inside-Out</strong><br /> Change doesn't have to be a one way street, and there is an opportunity for institutions to lead, alongside the change that we've seen from startups, and leading enterprise practitioners. Universities are at an important insertion where what they practice, can be exported through students, but also through industry leadership--allowing for more inside-out change, using APIs.</p>
<p><strong>Equipping Students</strong><br /> The API imperative on campus starts with serving the institution's original mission, and equipping students. It is easy to think of APIs as purely an IT initiative, something far away from the students, but this is already impacting students lives. Institutions have an opportunity to help equip students with the tools they need, and an understanding of the digital world they are growing up in.</p>
<p><strong>Resources From Campus Systems</strong><br /> APIs are all about access to resources, and every student facing campus system should allow for secure, student access to the resources they depend on the most. Starting with course schedules, all the way to the seemingly mundane like parking information, and faculty directories. You never know what a student will consider when it comes to getting access to what they need, and aPIs allow for a secure channel that institutions can deliver valuable resources to students.</p>
<p><strong>Resources From Public Systems</strong><br /> APIs aren't just about campus services, and many of the online, and mobile services students are depending on have APIs. The New York Times, NASA, WordPress, Twitter, and Facebook all use APIs, giving an unprecedented amount of resources to the average person--this isn't out of the reach of the average student. APIs aren't just about getting access to the campus schedule, it can also be about using Google Maps, and World Bank data in a school paper.</p>
<p><strong>Resources For A Successful Career</strong><br /> Learning to access what they need from internal, and public resources via APis will equip students for a more successful career, no matter what field they are entering. If the average students enters the workforce with working knowledge around how to get access to the resources they need, but also put the resources to use in the most relevant way to their work--they will always be ahead of the pack when they enter the workforce.</p>
<p><strong>Equipping Teachers With What They Need</strong><br /> The best part of APIs, is they can be accessed by exactly the intended audience as desired by institutions, and this means it isn't just about students, that teachers can also put both campus, and external public resources to use in the support of their work. Whether its research, or enhancing the classroom experience, API resources can change how teachers engage with the institutions they serve.</p>
<p><strong>Empowering Administrators With A More Agile Governance</strong><br /> Modern approaches to API deliver includes API management providing a platform in which campuses can securely make campus resources available, while also understanding who has access, and how they are putting resources to use. Current approaches to API management were born out of earlier IT governance strategies, but have evolved to give platform developers, and end-users more control, and focusing on access and innovation over control.</p>
<p><strong>Allowing Government to Lead, and Get Out of Way</strong><br /> As a result of other API efforts at the federal government level, the US Department of Education has been exploring the potential of APIs across the education landscape from the distribution of content, filling out common forms, all the way to providing platforms for grant funding to the free application for financial student aid. APIs standards like efforts in healthcare, and energy, are being employed within education, that will have a wide impact across all educational institutions.</p>
<p><strong>Allowing Market Forces To Step In And Offer Services</strong><br /> APIs have the potential to open up resources across institutions, as well as between institutions, and amongst the vendor ecosystem the already serves much of the higher educational landscape. Much like with the IRS tax landscape, APIs have the potential to connect the government, and the commercial sector that is already serving institutions, while also giving institutions access and control over their own resources like they have never seen before.</p>
<p><strong>Enable Transparency</strong><br /> When done right, all of this has some important side effects of making campus operations more transparent and accessible, but in a way that protects all data and resources being exposed, while also giving end-user control over their own information. It is imperative that institutions that help prepare students for the the lives ahead of them also ensures they leave with a certain amount of digital literacy, that helps them take active role in the transparency of not just the institutions to are part of, but also the businesses they work for, and demand of their government.</p>
<p><strong>Provide Security</strong><br /> A common misconception about APIs is that they are always available to the public, when in reality the bulk of APIs provide access to a very select audience, secured using common approaches to introduced by modern API management. Security, such as the OAuth standard are used by providers like Twitter and Google, to adequately secure API resources, ensuring only the intended audience has access, and end-users can provide access to 3rd parties, with the ability to revoke at any time.</p>
<p><strong>Sharing the Load</strong><br /> With a proper focus on APIs, institutions can share the load with trusted faculty, trusted partners, and students. When access is enabled in this way resources can be accessed when they are needed, directly by developers, or 3rd party developers brought on to help. The age where institutions have to wait for their short-handed IT staff is over, and the load can be shared with every player involved.</p>
<p><strong>Sync With Larger World</strong><br /> APis are how startups are taking the lead in many areas, and setting the pace for change. Many organizations are realizing they need an API approach to keep in sync with the world at large, from delivering content 24/7 online and via mobile devices, to managing accounting systems, travel, and other aspects of institutional operation between internal and external systems. APIs are the pipes that will keep higher education in sync with the world, and does it in a way that institutions can contribute much of what is needed for meaningful change in the way the world operates--in real-time.</p>
<p><strong>Web</strong><br /> API change begins with taking approaches used to build websites and retool to allow for an API way of delivering the resources needed for web operations, priming the pump for a multi-channel approach to delivering education. The Internet has evolved how education flows, and APIs are just getting going in delivering to the web, but in a way that can also take into consider other fast growing channels, and potentially future channels that we are unaware of.</p>
<p><strong>Mobile</strong><br /> APIs were used before mobile phones became front ad center, but once the iPhone was released, everything changed, making APIs the preferred approach to serving up valuable data, content, and the resources over the Internet. In 2015, if you are accessing something online through a mobile app, APIs are the pipes enabling, and with each student possessing one of these compute devices in their pocket, it is fast becoming the primary channel for learning.</p>
<p><strong>Embeddable</strong><br /> When you visit any web page, or load a mobile application, the chances the content your interacting with came from multiple sources is very likely. Emeddable elements like widgets delivery API driven content, visualizations help us see API driven data, and buttons enabling API driven actions, across the Internet landscape--APIs are not just about web and mobile apps, but embedding resources where they are needed.</p>
<p><strong>Spreadsheets</strong><br /> Much of the world's business is conducted via the spreadsheet, whether it is of the Microsoft Excel flavor or web 2.0 Google spreadsheet version, so it make sense as APis become more common across the business landscape, that they continue to play a central role. Spreadsheets are increasingly used to deploy APIs, as well as becoming a client for extracting, and engaging with API driven content, data, and resources--all within the spreadsheet interface.</p>
<p><strong>Single Page Apps</strong><br /> Another evolution in how we deliver applications that has occurred in recent years is the concept of the Single Page Application, or SPA. An approach used by developers to quickly deploy simple sites, web, and mobile applications that efficiently deliver and engage with end-users in a valuable way. APIs are increasingly being used to connect valuable data, content, and resources to SPA being used for a variety of resources from internal sources, as well as public ones.</p>
<p><strong>Devices</strong><br /> As the web becomes more mobile, may physical objects in our ever day worlds are also becoming Internet enabled. From our cars, to the thermostat and appliances in our homes, API are being used to securely sync with systems and applications that run in the cloud. API awareness allows for potentially more seamless access to physical resources, and a general awareness amongst campus administrators, faculty, and student, makes the Internet of Things much potentially more sensible, safe, and secure, providing more solutions than challenges.</p>
<p><strong>Where Do You See Yourself?</strong><br />After hearing all of this, where do you see yourself? What role do you have to play at your institution, and putting APIs to work? Will your contribution be more top-down, bottom-up, outside-in, or inside-out? Every actor has a role to play, and I travel around educateing people to help them understand where they fit in, and potentially unleasing what they have to offer on the space. &nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Where Are You On Your API Journey?</strong><br />I am pretty confident that you have already begun your API journey, you may not be aware of it. The question isn't are you on the journey, it is about how far along the journey you are. &nbsp;APIs are touching every aspect of our personal and professional lives, and we are at a point where we need to make sure the entire next generation is equipped with the resources they need for success.</p>