---
title: Transparency
date: 2017-05-29 06:45:00 Z
---

I believe that APIs can bring some important transparency to the web, mobile, and device applications that seem to be invading our life. I hesitate using the word transparency because it has been weaponized by Wikileaks and others, but for the purposes of this story, I'll keep using it. APIs by default do not mean transparency, but when done in the right way they can pull back the curtain a little on what is going on when a company, organization, institution, or agency behind is willing.

I've had a portion of my research dedicated to studying intentional transparency efforts by API providers, giving me a place to publish any organizations, links, and stories I publish on the subject of API transparency. While looking at some university API efforts the other day I came across [the Apply Magic Sauce API](https://applymagicsauce.com), a personalisation engine that accurately predicts psychological traits from digital footprints of human behavior, [which had an interesting section dedicated to the subject of transparency](https://applymagicsauce.com/business.html). Here is some background on their approach:

Our methods have been peer-reviewed and published in open access journals since 2013, and new services that sound similar to Apply Magic Sauce API (AMS) are springing up every day. As this technology becomes more accessible and its impact increases, we would like to ensure that citizens have clarity on who we do and do not work with. We are therefore committed to keeping an up to date list of every organisation that we have formally authorised to use AMS for commercial purposes. These clients are advised to follow our ethical guidelines and are bound by our terms and conditions regarding the need to obtain the informed consent of individuals about whom predictions are made. We encourage other providers of predictive technologies to honour the principles of privacy, transparency and relevance and publish a similar list of their own.

The Apply Magic Sauce API provides me with a solid example of an existing instution, "...committed to keeping an up to date list of every organization that we have formally authorised to use AMS for commercial purposes", and encouraging the providers they serve to "publish a similar list of their own". What an important example to set when it comes to APIs, especially APIs that involve the amount of personally identifiable information (PII) like social networks posses. It provides a positive precedent that ANY application who allows the OAuth of a user via their Twitter, Facebook, or another social network should be following.
 
Honestly, I'm still not 100% sure about what they are up to at the University of Cambridge with their Apply Magic Sauce API--I am still getting up and running. However, [from the amount of work they've put into the ethics behind their API platform](http://apievangelist.com/2017/05/31/an-example-of-api-ethics-out-of-cambridge-university/), as well as the bar for transparency being set, I'm willing to give them the benefit of the doubt that they are up to good things. I'll keep diving into their API, and monitor the activity in the community to make sure they are standing behind their pledge, and whether or not their API partners are as well.

I am hoping that the University of Cambridge provides me with a solid ethical example of not just how an API provider can behave and communicate around the transparency of their API consumption, but also how to set the same expectations with their consumers. If I had my way this would be the standard operating procedure for EVERY company, organization, institution, and government agency that possess any PII for a citizen--100% transparency of EVERY single partner, customer, and application developer who has acces to our personal data.