---
title: An API You Should Consider Emulating When Crafting Your SaaS / API Business
date: 2017-06-05 00:35:00 Z
---

The [social bookmarking API Pinboard](https://pinboard.in/u:kinlane) is the number one API business model out there that we should be emulating when crafting our API-focused businesses. I've used Pinboard to curate what I do as the API Evangelist ever since 2011, and it has been one of the most stable and versatile APIs in my stack, doing one thing, and doing it well, reflecting everything that is API from a business perspective.

I feel that Pinboard provides entrepreneurs with a positive model for not just a SaaS business, and API operations, but showing startups that you don't always need to scale to achieve success. [Pinboard acquired their rival Delicious bookmarking site](https://blog.pinboard.in/2017/06/pinboard_acquires_delicious/) this last week, which has been bought and sold five times now, showing the volatility of startup culture, and the viability and potential stability an API business can bring to the table. Providing us with a model that won't necessary work in all situations, but provides us with plenty to consider for our API ideas that really aren't VC scale ideas.

I know there will always be startups who are obsessed with the VC model for launching, scaling, and selling a business. I am fine with dealing with some of the volatility brought by these types of companies, but I feel like the lion share of the actual API business will be conducted on the shoulders of giants like Amazon, Google, and Microsoft, and via smaller operators like Pinboard. I'm thinking that I'm going to make Pinboard into a textbook example of how to do APIs, helping entrepreneurs understand what healthy patterns already exist providing them with something they can emulate when building a SaaS / API Business.